# Alumni Information Collection

## Introduction


Alumni networks provide long-term value to an educational institution by giving alumni the chance to stay in contact with the school, the student body, and with each other. In recent years, with the technological advancement from recent years posing a threat to traditional manual alumni network management, a digitized alumni network is essential to support all type of interactions within and across stakeholders: the program administration, the alumni, the faculty, and current students. On top of that, the Social Science Division (SSD)'s current alumni-student career and networking system lack an all-in-one, consolidated platform for personalized networking needs and are not cost-efficient. This thesis's scope includes 1)identifying, collecting, and verifying the information of the prominent alumni in the three MA programs under SSD: CIR, MAPSS, and MACSS after 2000, 2)building an industry-based classifier to map students to relevant alumni based on intended career to facilitate mentor matching, and 3)creating a networking web app for alumni and current students to network and form mentorships based on career and research interests. 
 
## Dependency

The code and data in this repository is an example of a reproducible research workflow for this project

Most of the code is written in Python 3.11.2 and all of its dependencies can be installed by running the following in the terminal (with the `requirements.txt` file included in this repository):

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
## Data

### Confidential
Alumni Data: All alumni data given by the SSD and generated by scraping and verifying data using Python, Selenium, Google API, and LinkedIn are confidential. Each non-empty work experience in the dataset has been assigned an industry type out of ten pre-designed categories, including Business/Finance, Charity/Volunteering, Consulting, Education/Research, Healthcare, Human Resources, Law, Policy/Government/Social Work, Technology, and Others. 

### Public
1. [Kaggle UK Job Data](https://www.kaggle.com/code/chadalee/text-analytics-explained-job-description-data): This dataset contains approximately 240,000 observations from job posts by companies in the UK and will be used to pretrain logistic regression and naive bayes classifiers. The dataset was originally used in a competition by Adzuna to predict salaries for jobs based on various attributes, including industry type, company, position, and job description.

2. [Indian Job DistilBERT Data](https://nlp.johnsnowlabs.com/2021/11/21/distilbert_sequence_classifier_industry_en.html): This dataset consists of 7,000 samples of business descriptions from companies in India and was utilized to pre-train DistilBERT model. It classify these descriptions into one of 62 industry tags.

## Structure
This repository is organized into executables, exploratory, and notebook files. 

- Notebook files contain a mix of code cells and markdown cells, which can be used to document and explain the code. They are labeled in sequence.
- Executable files are standalone Python scripts that can be run from the command line. They are labeled in sequence.
To run any of the executable files, enter the command:

```
python __.py
```
- Exploratory files contain more experimental or preliminary code that help with the direction of my research, but do not contain any result or analysis.

## Content
[1_data_collection_google_api.ipynb](https://github.com/MACSS-Projects/Lynette_thesis_alumni_2022/blob/main/notebooks/1_data_collection_google_api.ipynb): use Google API to collect urls to alumni's linkedin profiles. The alternatives to Google API are Linkedin API and Selenium, which are shown in [expoloratory](https://github.com/MACSS-Projects/Lynette_thesis_alumni_2022/tree/main/exploratory)

[2_verification_selenium_linkedin.ipynb](https://github.com/MACSS-Projects/Lynette_thesis_alumni_2022/blob/main/notebooks/2_verification_selenium_linkedin.ipynb): use Selenium to verify whether the collected url to Linkedin profile match up with the alumni on file, scrape their profile if verified. I have explored both chrome and firefox browser options, which are shown in [expoloratory](https://github.com/MACSS-Projects/Lynette_thesis_alumni_2022/tree/main/exploratory)

[3_preprocessing.ipynb](https://github.com/MACSS-Projects/Lynette_thesis_alumni_2022/blob/main/notebooks/3_preprocessing.ipynb): clean up the raw scraped  result from Linkedin, group each observation into education or experience, restructure and sort data into attributes such as position, company, and description

[4_preliminary_analysis.ipynb](https://github.com/MACSS-Projects/Lynette_thesis_alumni_2022/blob/main/notebooks/4_preliminary_analysis.ipynb): conduct a preliminary analysis of alumni's career trajectory, industry classification, PhD/MBA placement, position type, and location based on keyword extraction

[5_industry_classification_mapping.ipynb](https://github.com/LynetteDang/final-project-comp-ling/blob/main/5_industry_classification_mapping.ipynb): design custom industry tag mapping to ensure consistency in outcome variables across datasets when training industry classification models

[6_industry_analysis_combined.ipynb](https://github.com/LynetteDang/final-project-comp-ling/blob/main/6_industry_analysis_combined.ipynb): train, fit, and evaluate performance of the two classifiers 

## Prototype: SSD Connect
[SSD Connect](https://www.figma.com/community/file/1216973904264301889) is an ALL-IN-ONE career resource and networking web app for alumni and current students to network and form mentorships based on career and research interests under UChicago's Social Science Division (SSD)
